." Man page for aliashub
."
.TH ALIASHUB 1 "July 2024" "AliasHub 1.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
aliashub \- a comprehensive alias management system for Bash

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install.sh

.SH DESCRIPTION
AliasHub is a system designed to enhance command-line productivity by providing a centralized and organized way to manage Bash aliases, functions, and prompt settings.

The installation script automates the setup process by creating a configuration directory at
.I ~/.alias
, populating it with predefined alias files, and sourcing them from the user's
.I ~/.bashrc
file.

It also integrates the
.B starship
cross-shell prompt, automating its installation and configuration for an enhanced user experience.

.SH INSTALLATION
To install AliasHub, navigate to the cloned repository directory and run the installation script:
.br
.B ./install.sh
.br
The script will handle the creation of necessary files and update your
.I ~/.bashrc
file. You must reload your shell configuration for changes to take effect:
.br
.B source ~/.bashrc

.SH KEY ALIASES
AliasHub provides several key aliases to manage your environment:
.TP
.B edalias
Opens the main alias file
.I (~/.alias/.bash_aliases)
in your default editor.
.TP
.B refresh
Reloads your shell's configuration, equivalent to running `source ~/.bashrc`.
.TP
.B prompts
Opens the prompt configuration file
.I (~/.alias/.prompts)
for editing.
.TP
.B upgrade
Updates and upgrades system packages using the configured package manager.

.SH FILES
AliasHub uses the following files, which are installed in the
.I ~/.alias
directory:
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.bash_aliases
The main file for general-purpose alias definitions.
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.bash_functions
Used for defining custom Bash functions.
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.cl
Contains command-line shortcut aliases.
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.package
Holds aliases related to system package management (e.g., apt, pacman).
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.prompts
Configures the shell prompt, including the initialization for Starship.
.TP
.B ~/.alias/.starship_config
The configuration file for the Starship prompt theme.
.TP
.B ~/.bashrc
This file is modified by the installer to source the AliasHub configuration.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR bash (1),
.BR starship (1),
.BR source (1p)